This is not obvious at first
when you start writing code,
you think of testing as something
you do later to the codebase
rather than as being part of
the process of writing code.
And I think this is an important
kind of thing to to internalize.
And it's not just that, it's also
the thing I talked about, which is,
you wanna set up your environment so
you don't have to think about it.
When somebody comes to you and
says, x is broken and
you wanna reproduce it,
you immediately say, the easiest way for
me to reproduce it is to
write a mini-test, right?
If somebody comes in and says, the
clustering isn't working the way I expect,
you should immediately be like, okay, let
me write a unit test with the thing you're
describing see if I can produce the thing.
And the easiest way to do it is inside of
a unit test because it runs automatically
on a side I can immediately see
the output, I can see what's happening.
I can run it under debugger to figure
out what the issue is and so on.
So I always say that testing is
not like frosting, meaning that,
frosting is the sugar you put
on when you bake, right, but
flour is the ingredient that
has to go into your cake.
Like if you skip flour when you're baking
a cake, whatever you get out of it, right,
like you can't add flour on top of it
afterwards and expect to have a cake,
it just doesn't work, right?
So testing is not like frosting,
you can't just add it after the fact,
it has to be part of the process.
So the other thing I wanna talk about, and
I think it's useful as a mental exercise,
is to say,
suppose you're an evil engineer and
you wanna make your code hard to test,
what do you do, right?
Because presumably,
if you can answer that question,
then you can answer the question of what
not to do to make your code easy to test.
And I have a class for you here.
This happens to be Java cuz
I wrote this a while ago.
And when I show this to people,
what usually happens is that people start
reading the code and
they're trying to understand what it does.
And I think that misses the point,
because what the code does has really
nothing to do with whether or
not it's easy to read or write.
As a matter of fact, we have minifiers,
we could minify the whole thing.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Right, and
now you have no idea what the code does.
And yet I'm gonna argue that the ability
to test it has not changed, right?
So testing the code has nothing
to do with what the code does and
it has to do everything with
how the code is structured.
And we kind of touched up on
the biggest part of this,
which is that you need to be able
to get hold of your dependencies.
And so let's color code this a little bit.
So this is the green part over here.
And what the green part
represents are variables
that I can control because
I can pass in a mock,
a friendly, a fake implementation,
a database.
If the data presents a database,
I can pass in a local database over here,
I control D, right?
And because I control D,
if I try hard enough,
maybe, maybe I can control B and C.
But I say, if try I hard enough, meaning,
if I'm really clever about
what green color represents,
the yellow color becomes one step removed,
right?
So if I control the green color directly,
I may be able to get hold of the yellow
color because you can see that the green
is used as an argument in there.
So if I mark enough things,
maybe I can get a hold of the B and
the yellow stuff, does that make sense?
And then if I try hard enough,
maybe I can get a hold of
the third level of indirection.
But that's about it, at that point, your
tests are gonna look so ridiculous, and
you're gonna have so
many mocks returning mocks, etc,
that the whole thing becomes completely
unmaintainable and ununderstandable.
So the way to look at whether or not code
is testable is to ask yourself a question
of, what do I get to control,
what is under my control as a developer?
And if I can control things,
then I can test them.
And if I cannot control things,
then I cannot test them.
So the point of refactoring
when you're doing test,
is to rearrange the code in such a way,
so that you can you can get hold of
as many things inside of
these classes as possible.
That's why when I was talking about
it earlier, I said, hey typically
we write code is when we mix business
logic together with the construction
lodging of how we instantiate all
the functions and classes, etc.
And those two things need to be separate.
I need to be able to build the system.
You can think of it as your system is like
Lego blocks that you wanna put together in
a particular way to have a specific
kind of application working, right?
And LEGO pieces are usually,
some are general,
but some are very specific
to do very specific things.
You wanna make sure that
you can get hold of and
play with each LEGO piece independently,
so
that you can verify that every single
one of them is doing the right stuff.
So if you refactor the same exact code,
if you believe that it's the same thing,
notice all I did is I moved things
around so that the constructor,
instead of looking for things,
is just handed things.
So let me go back up a second.
If you looked over here, you'll notice
what's inside of the constructor here.
You were given stuff and instead of
using it, the constructor did work,
it looked for other things and
made more stuff, right?
Whereas if you refactor it,
the constructor is all nice and green,
it doesn't really do anything, it just
stores the stuff that you were given.
Again, let's go back to where we
were writing the GitHub API test,
we were doing the same exact thing, right?
We wanted to make sure that
the GitHub API, we could sandwich it.
And so we wanted to make sure that
I can pass in the fetch function,
I could pass in the delay function.
I wanted to make sure that I can control
both sides of the of the GitHub API.
And the way we did that
is by passing things in.
Now, you can look at it in terms
of the object-oriented world,
which is the constructor passing, but
if you think about what JavaScript is,
JavaScript has functions,
and functions have closures.
And closures are essentially
the same thing as a constructor,
they just close over things.
And so you wanna make sure that you can
call that function that closes over stuff
and you control what it closes over.
And as long as you can
control what it closes over,
it is equivalent to having the control
over a constructor, right?
So like our GitHub API was written
as a class, it didn't have to be,
it could have been written as a functional
thing where you close over other things.
We would just have to make sure that
we can close over a fake phage and
a fake delay so that we can control
the time and we can control what
goes over the wire to the actual GitHub,
and the same thing would still apply.
>> Yeah, so speaking of Java,
sometimes you have to providers and
dependency injection and all of that.
So do you test for your providers?
And,
>> Very good question.
We're gonna actually cover more of it
a little later, but the short answer is,
your end-to-end test verifies that
everything is wired correctly, right?
Because what you're doing with
the providers are using wiring things
up in a correct way.
If you can do a basic operation
on an end-to-end test,
then you know that all the pieces must
have been wired incorrectly, right?
So the end-to-end tests tend
to answer the question is,
are the pieces wired up correctly.
Whereas a unit test, answer the question,
are the individual pieces
doing the right stuff?
And you can have everything in between.
Yes, Mark.
>> You're saying that the more
decoupled our code is the better it is?
>> That seems like somebody's,
>> [LAUGH]
>> What's the word I'm looking for here?
[LAUGH] Intentionally said that
to kinda make a point, yes,
that's literally what I'm saying, yes.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Sounds like you're optimizing for
dependency injection.
What's your take on dependency injection,
especially when applied to JavaScript and
TypeScript?
>> Right, so dependency injection
is just a fancy way of saying that,
I wanna be able to control
my dependencies, right?
What we did with GitHub API
was that dependency injection?
I guess, right,
we were controlling how we pass things in.
And so again, I'm just gonna come
back to the original statement is,
I don't care how you
control your dependencies,
as long as you can control
your dependencies, right?
If you have a system where you
cannot get a hold of the fetch and
you cannot get a hold of the delay,
you're gonna have a really hard time
being able to write these tests.
Whereas if you can't get a hold
of these things, you can do it.
Now, Javascript, because it's duck typed,
which is dynamically typed, right?
What you can do is you can always get a
hold of, for example, fetch because fetch
is just a property on global space and
you can replace it with something else.
So you always have kind of a heavy
handed way of getting hold of
your dependency by
patching the global state.
But global state is problematic,
so, in my opinion,
it's always nicer to be able to
do it in an explicit fashion
rather than to do it in kind
of the global patchway.
Primarily, because if you
globally patching a fetch,
then you can only run one test at a time,
you cannot do parallelism, right,
because if that test is running,
then no other test can be running.
Now, you can argue that in Javascript it
doesn't really matter because Javascript
is single-threaded.
With promises and the weights,
you can kind of get multiple
tests running concurrently.
Not quite the same thing,
so you have that argument.
But at the end of the day, it's always
much easier to reason about the test.
When I'm explicitly passing a fake fetch,
I look at the test and
I'm, they're passing a fake fetch.
Whereas if you don't do that, then it's
like some setup code somewhere ran and
it replaced the global fetch
with this other fake one.
And now if I call this magical function,
I can control what the fetch returns, but
it's not easy for me to see how
all the pieces come together.
So it's possible to do it without it,
and it's possible to do it
without dependency injection is
just explicit DI makes it easier.
And again, a lot of people will think of
dependency injection as object oriented
with constructor, but I'm gonna argue
that just making a function that closes
over your dependencies,
that is also the same exact thing as just
an object-oriented class
that has a constructor.
It's just that the syntax is much
cleaner and simpler with functions and
closing over variables.
Hopefully, I've convinced you that what
the code does is irrelevant to whether or
not it's testable, right?
It's all about how the code
is structured that makes it
possible to write unit tests.
And this is why, I go back to this thing
that there's nothing I can teach you about
writing tests, I can only teach you
stuff about writing testable code.
So it's all about how
you structure your code,
not some magic of using
some specific tool etc.
Tools are useful, and
they do a lot of interesting things, but
it's all about structuring
the code in the right way.